Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We're gonna be demystifying and nested prefabs and variant prefabs as we're and we're going to set up
a hierarchy of prefab so that we've got a character at the root and then enemy which is a child of the
character and basically inherits all its properties from that and player which is also a child of the
character we're going to see how that's possible.
And how does that actually work.
And we're going to demystify what actually is going on inside these files so we're going to open up
the play a prefab and have a look at the text layout and see what all these weird properties actually
mean.
Let's dive in and find out.
So what I want to achieve is to get a shared base between the enemy and the player which means that
we can share a lot of the configurations of the components because what it means to be a player and
what it means to be an enemy is very similar.
If I open the play a prefab we do expect our enemy to be able to move to have a nav mesh agent to have
an animator.
So have some sort of control script not the player control script so here they differ but to have a
fighter probably as well and they have an action scheduler.
So all these things are kind of in common between the two.
Now they might have different configuration parameters but it would be useful for them to have some
sort of shared base where if I decide I need a new component I can decide that it can go both on the
enemy and on the player.
That's gonna be very helpful for us going forward and it kind of unifies these two bits and pieces.
Now the approach I want to use for this is a new approach with it two thousand eighteen point three
which allows us to do prefab variance it's basically a different part of the whole nested prefabs system.
And let me explain how this works.
So what is a prefab in the first place.
This is true of before we had nested prefabs as well.
So everything I'm saying here is has been true all the way across.
And I'll tell you when it's or when it's going to be new stuff.
So a prefab is a essentially a collection of game objects but it's more than just a collection of game
objects.
If we go and open up say I play a prefab you can see it's this collection of game objects it's got a
hierarchy if I click on any one of the game objects it's got a bunch of components and it's properties.
So that tells us that each game object has got a bunch of components under it and under each component
you've got a bunch of property overrides you might not override the default property or you might in
which case you've got the property override there in the prefab and I just want to convince you that
this is actually the case by the way you can open a prefab if you've got serialized the text on in your
preferences in unity you can open a prefab in Visual Studio code because it is just a text editor and
you can see the text that makes up a prefab it's completely demystifies it you can see that there are
game objects in here we can see that the game objects got a bunch of components under it.
Here these notes that they're references which are a bit weird but if I select one you can see that
it's highlighting where there's another reference here and you can see that this actually the transform
component.
This one down here is a mesh renderer component this one here is to do a mono behaviour and its moral
behaviour doesn't tell us which script it is but if I look at this m script good and if I just search
for that in my project you need to Onyx glued the files so that's on the dot dot dot menu in.
So if I search the whole project the way I search the whole project by the way was controller shift
F shouldn't I should tell you that and also the dot dot dot and then remove this little cog which just
stops it from filtering to certain types of files and you'll notice that what that's showing is it's
showing that this grid is in the mover dot c s dot matter.
So what that's saying is that this mono behaviour is actually them on the move a dot c s so we've got
a component we've got a game object that's got lots of components and in that move a dot yes you can
see that somewhere in here where we don't have it on mover but on one of our other mono behaviours I'm
sure we've got some properties somewhere down here on this one we've got the weapon range properties
set to two so you can see that what I'm saying is true we've got a bunch of game objects with components
underneath and properties on each component but you might be asking me Hey Sam I thought you said there
was hierarchy as well in a prefab if we go and look in the Unity Editor there's this hierarchy over
here in the prefab Why is that not showing up in the file.
Well actually it is because some components in the prefab are actually transforms.
So these game objects are transforms and part of their property of a transform is actually knowing who
its parent is.
So for example Game Object 1 has no parents.
So it's the root object in the prefab however game object too has transformed to but its parent is transform
one so that means it's a child of object one.
And similarly with object three is a child of object too so you end up with a hierarchy where you've
got object one at the top then object to is a sub object and then object three is a sub object of that.
That's how hierarchies work in prefabs and we can have a look at this we can see this for ourselves
if we look at a particular transform actually we won't see it very easily in here because the player
prefab hasn't got anything under it but if I quickly just added an empty game object you notice that
empty game object has got to transform on its and we've just gone ahead and added something to our file.
But this game object and they guess this is the new game object I believe.
And it's got this transform and it's transforms parent.
They get em.
Father is this component.
And if I search the file control F for that component you can see it's the root objects transform.
So you can start to see how this actually really demystifies these dot prefab files.
They're not just magical.
They actually are just this collection of game objects components and properties as simple as that.
Now what's new is what they've introduced in 2000 eighteen point three called nested prefabs.
And what this allows us to do is it allows us to say hey instead of putting a game object in here I'm
going to put a prefab instance in here and that prefab instance is actually going to reference another
prefab and we've already done this.
You may not have registered quite that we've done this but this character Knights soldier none of this
information these game objects this at the components that it has none of this resides in our player
prefab it is all linked to from the player prefab.
So if I go to the bottom of the player prefab or near the bottom there is this prefab instance and the
prefab instance actually links off to a different file let me see if I can find this somewhere in here.
Here was at the bottom of these all these properties and I'll tell you about what those are in a second
but we've got this file I.D. And this grid and I think the grid is the one we've been looking for and
sure enough there's this good on the prefab dot meter.
So that is the link to the character Knight's prefab and it hasn't actually included all the data from
the prefab but we do have this list of modifications.
So that is basically saying if you wanted to change the property add a component add a game object to
this prefab then you do it in the list of modifications.
And that's where we've been seeing stuff like if I go to this character and night soldier then I could
go in here for example I could change its rotation if I wanted to.
I think that's not a good example because it's on the route but I could remove the animator for example
we remove the Animator component on Hicks we've actually got an animator at the top level.
So we don't actually need one here on Captain nights soldier and you can see there's this little blue
line next to it which means that it's a modification in the current prefab but not in the prefab were
pointing to.
So if I were to right click on this and I can look at the remove component that's the action that we've
done in this prefab and you can see I could apply it to the prefab it's coming from.
So that would basically move it from the list of modifications into the prefab itself.
So that's the really cool thing about nesting now variants are very much the same as nesting except
here with a variant we're saying that the whole prefab is really just a pointer to a different prefab
with a list of modifications.
Why is that ever useful.
Well this is exactly useful in the case that we're looking at the case of we want to have a base character
class and then an enemy which is a character.
So it is just a character prefab with a bunch of different modifications to the enemy prefab for example.
Very cool that we can actually do this.
So how do we create a variant.
Well what we do is we go over into the Unity project viewer and we select an existing prefab and you
right click it and you can go to create and then prefab variant like so and this creates a very you
can name.
So I'm going to call it play a modified like so.
And what I can then do is I can open the play a modified prefab you can see that the root object is
blue to identify the fact that the whole thing kind of inherits from a different prefab so I can actually
go visit the player prefab from within my player modified but I can make modifications here so I could
say Actually I want this player modified to have a speed of seven and you can see that this property
gets highlighted in blue by right click I can go to apply it to prefab a player basically very much
the same as the Knesset prefabs and applying it one level further up and I just want to show you this
can keep going levels and levels deep.
So this play a modified I could create a prefab variants off of this I could open up the prefab variance
of that and I could go and change its speed to eight for example.
Now if I click on speed you can see it says Do you want to apply it to the player prefab modified or
the player prefab and the player prefab so do you want to go one level up or two levels up.
So this becomes very interesting it's kind of you've got this inheritance of properties among your your
characters.
So what I want us to do is the following just to get your hands dirty.
We're going to create a character based class based prefab.
You're gonna rename the player to character.
That's gonna be our base for now.
Then you're going to make a two variants.
One is gonna be for the enemy and one is gonna be for the player named as such.
You might need to rename the current enemy prefab to something like enemy old because in the next lecture
we're gonna be trying to achieve the same setup as we have now.
So pause the video and have a go at setting up this with the character at the roots and the enemies
and players basically as variants of that character okay.
Welcome back.
We can do this very quickly so these modified players I'm going to delete I'm going to rename this player
to character and then I'm going to create one variants create their prefab variant and I'm going to
call that player.
That's where we're gonna make all our player specific changes and then the enemy.
I'm going to rename currently to enemy old and create another variant off of character by selecting
it going to create prefab variants and calling that one enemy.
So that's where we'll make all the modifications specific to the enemy.
Hopefully that's slightly clearer about prefab variance and nested prefabs and how cool they really
are and that we've demystified a little bit the format of those prefabs by having a look at the text
editor and the next lecture we're going to clean this up so that the player and enemy really do reflect
what they mean and what they are.